[Music]
ouch what to do if you're attacked by a
dog ah yes the dog also called k9
bow-wow fleabag critter beast puppy
mongrel setter varmint wiener dog pooch
fight of Chomper hound fur baby dog mutt
and Canis familiaris did I leave any
nicknames out please add it to the
comments below by the way I knew someone
who wants years ago named her dog mr.
president this way she could tell the
dog to sit mr. president roll over mr.
president get off the couch mr.
president good dog alas we don't usually
expect any threat from an adorable
creature that's been rightly dubbed our
best friend but never forget that first
of all dogs are animals and they have
animal instincts and if they haven't
been trained properly by their owners to
be sociable with other animals and
people then even the friendliest looking
pooch can attack you if something goes
wrong before you find out what exactly
you should do if you come across an
aggressive dog or even worse you're
attacked be sure to hit that subscribe
button and ring the notification bell to
join us on the bright side
[Music]
number one what to do if a dog doesn't
attack but acts aggressively a dog's
body language can speak volumes if you
know what signs to look for for example
if a dog's ears are tightly pressed back
against his head and it's growling guess
what you better stay away don't approach
such an animal unless you want to
provoke an attack but if avoidance fails
and the dog still looks ready to charge
it you remember the following do not try
to calm the dog down or smile at it
animals perceive a smile differently
than you do while a smile means friendly
intentions to a human a dog will think
that you're baring your teeth to
challenge it avoid direct eye contact
and sudden movements the best strategy
will be to ignore the dog it'll
eventually calm down and stop paying
attention to you in other words the more
you show your anxiety and flail your
arms the more likely the dog is to
attack if there's someone around you may
try to ask for help but don't raise your
voice keep it calm and low-pitched
instead do not swing a stick at the dog
or use pepper spray first of all the
wind can spoil your plans and blow the
spray right into your own eyes besides
these actions probably won't scare the
dog away
on the contrary such behavior will make
the dog more aggressive let's admit it
even a friendly pup won't be happy if
you start swinging your arms or throwing
sticks at it retreat slowly and
carefully remember the main rule of
getting away from an aggressive dog do
not turn your back to the animal it's
better to move away with your side to
the dog you'll be able to see both where
you're going and the dog's reaction
do not run this will awaken the dogs
hunting instincts it'll start to chase
you and you won't be able to outrun it
most dogs can charge faster than Usain
Bolt number two what to do if a dog
attacks an animal always attacks for a
reason at the same time their reasons
aren't always obvious for example stray
dogs usually attack if they're hungry or
if they're protecting their puppies or
territory if you've done everything
possible to prevent the dog from
charging at you and it still attacks you
need to remember the following rules do
not shout at the dog even if you can't
think of anything else to do the dog
will perceive shouting as a sign of
aggression and this will only make the
animal angrier
if you have an ultrasonic dog repellent
on hand use it immediately this device
emits high frequency sound waves as soon
as you switch it on you won't hear a
sound but the dog well this type of
noise irritates animals and makes them
feel uncomfortable that's why if you're
lucky the dog will run away if the dog
charges at you
try to cover its head with your jacket
or sweater as soon as the animal gets
within your reach while the dog is
distracted make your retreat try to put
an object such as a tree post bench or
your neighbor between you and the animal
well maybe not your neighbor if there's
an opportunity you can even climb a tree
the dog won't be able to follow you
there just watch out for aggressive
squirrels if you don't have any
outerwear with you throw your bag or any
object you have on hand to the side this
will distract the dog as a result the
animal may attack the object first
giving you some time to run away and if
you have some food in your shopping bag
or your lunch box for example a turkey
sandwich or a piece of sausage throw it
to the dog maybe that's what the animal
wants from you anyway if you haven't
managed to distract the dog and it's
still after you
cover your neck with your hands the neck
is one of the most vulnerable parts of
the human body there are too many major
arteries and veins there to leave it
unprotected if you realize you'll be
bitten no matter what the safest place
for the dog to bite you
is your shin or forearm yes it'll hurt
like crazy but at least you'll avoid
fatal bleeding if the dog has sunk its
teeth into your limb do whatever you can
to free yourself but don't attempt to
pull away by pulling away you can
seriously worsen the injury because the
dog's teeth will tear your flesh further
instead hit the dog on the nose or eyes
experts also recommend grabbing the
animal's hind legs and lifting them off
the ground
use your weight to press the dog to the
ground with your knees or elbows dogs
can bite bark and snarl but they can't
wrestle this is why this is an effective
way to immobilize the animal so you can
wait until someone comes to your rescue
at the same time the danger can escalate
dramatically if you get attacked by not
one but a whole pack of dogs well it's
just not your day in this case do the
same thing you would if there was just
one dog
the only crucial difference here is that
you mustn't let the dog surround you try
to stand with your back to a wall or
fence do not run the dogs will without a
shadow of a doubt chase after you
because at that moment you look to them
just like a juicy tennis ball number
three
what to do if you've been bitten if a
dog has bitten you you must take care of
the wound as soon as you're out of
harm's way
here's what you need to do carefully
rinse the wound with soap and water
after that swab it with alcohol ouch to
avoid infection despite what most people
think it doesn't matter whether you've
been bitten by a stray dog or a
domesticated one either way you'll still
have to go to the hospital for necessary
testing and treatment you'll then
perhaps be vaccinated for rabies if you
cannot prove that the attacking dog
doesn't have the necessary vaccinations
contrary to popular belief this doesn't
involve twenty to thirty injections to
the stomach nowadays only about six
shots are administered in the shoulder
or thigh according to statistics dogs
are responsible for 99% of the rabies
infections in people the first symptoms
of the disease appear thirty to fifty
days after being infected however you
absolutely must get a rabies vaccine as
soon as possible especially if the
animal hasn't been captured and tested
for rabies
if you don't get treated the
consequences will be fatal
unfortunately there's no cure for rabies
only preventive measures the rabies
virus can be transmitted not only
through a bite sometimes just a few
drops of saliva from a sick animal on
your skin or mucous membrane can affect
you that's why you should never let an
unfamiliar dog lick your hands or face
take care of your safety and try to stay
away from stray or wild animals but if
worst comes to worst and an encounter
with a stray dog can't be avoided you
now know what to do so have you ever had
to deal with an aggressive dog let us
know down in the comments how you
managed to get out of this trouble don't
forget to give this video a like share
it with your friends and click subscribe
to stay on the bright side of life
[Music]